docs/architecture/INFO_CURRENT_ARCHITECTURE.md, before:

# DailyWebScanner - Current Architecture Documentation

## 🎯 Overview

This document describes the current architecture of DailyWebScanner, a macOS application for comprehensive web search, content analysis, and article storage using SwiftData and modern SwiftUI.

## 📊 Current Status (Updated 2024-12-19)
- ✅ **SwiftData Integration** - Fully implemented
- ✅ **SearchRecord System** - Complete search session management
- ✅ **LinkRecord System** - Individual article storage and analysis
- ✅ **ImageRecord System** - Image management and storage
- ✅ **AI Integration** - OpenAI and Google AI Overview
- ✅ **Per-Search Parameters** - Dynamic search configuration
- ✅ **Multi-Window UI** - Separate windows for different views

## 🏗️ Architecture Overview

### **Core Components:**
```
DailyWebScanner App
├── SwiftData Models
│   ├── SearchRecord (Main search sessions)
│   ├── LinkRecord (Individual articles)
│   ├── ImageRecord (Image storage)
│   └── SearchResult (Search results)
├── API Integration
│   ├── SerpAPIClient (Google search)
│   ├── OpenAIClient (AI summaries)
│   └── LinkContentFetcher (Article extraction)
├── User Interface
│   ├── ContentView (Main search interface)
│   ├── SearchQueriesView (Article management)
│   ├── APISettingsView (API configuration)
│   └── SearchParametersView (Per-search settings)
└── Data Management
    ├── SwiftData Container
    ├── Keychain Integration
    └── Content Analysis
```

## 📊 Data Models

### **1. SearchRecord - Main Search Sessions**
```swift
@Model
final class SearchRecord: Identifiable {
    @Attribute(.unique) var id: UUID
    var query: String
    var createdAt: Date
    var htmlSummary: String
    
    // Search Parameters
    var language: String = ""
    var region: String = ""
    var location: String = ""
    var safeSearch: String = ""
    var searchType: String = ""
    var timeRange: String = ""
    var numberOfResults: Int = 20
    
    // Metadata
    var searchDuration: TimeInterval = 0.0
    var resultCount: Int = 0
    
    // Content Analysis
    var contentAnalysis: String = ""  // JSON string
    var headlinesCount: Int = 0
    var linksCount: Int = 0
    var contentBlocksCount: Int = 0
    var tagsCount: Int = 0
    var hasContentAnalysis: Bool = false
    
    // Link Content Storage
    var linkContents: String = ""  // JSON string
    var hasLinkContents: Bool = false
    var totalImagesDownloaded: Int = 0
    var totalContentSize: Int = 0
    
    // Relationships
    @Relationship(deleteRule: .cascade)
    var results: [SearchResult]
    
    @Relationship(deleteRule: .cascade)
    var linkRecords: [LinkRecord]
}
```

### **2. LinkRecord - Individual Articles**
```swift
@Model
final class LinkRecord: Identifiable {
    @Attribute(.unique) var id: UUID
    var searchRecordId: UUID
    var originalUrl: String
    var title: String
    var content: String
    var html: String
    var css: String
    var fetchedAt: Date
    
    // Metadata
    var author: String?
    var publishDate: Date?
    var articleDescription: String?
    var keywords: String?
    var language: String?
    var wordCount: Int
    var readingTime: Int
    
    // Images
    var imageCount: Int
    var totalImageSize: Int
    var images: [ImageRecord] = []
    
    // AI Overview
    var hasAIOverview: Bool
    var aiOverviewJSON: String
    var aiOverviewThumbnail: String?
    var aiOverviewReferences: String?
    
    // Content Analysis
    var hasContentAnalysis: Bool
    var contentAnalysisJSON: String
    
    // HTML Preview
    var htmlPreview: String
}
```

### **3. ImageRecord - Image Storage**
```swift
@Model
final class ImageRecord: Identifiable {
    @Attribute(.unique) var id: UUID
    var linkRecordId: UUID
    var imageUrl: String
    var imageData: Data
    var imageSize: Int
    var imageType: String
}
```

### **4. SearchResult - Search Results**
```swift
@Model
final class SearchResult: Identifiable {
    @Attribute(.unique) var id: UUID
    var searchRecordId: UUID
    var title: String
    var url: String
    var snippet: String
    var position: Int
    var domain: String
    var faviconUrl: String?
    var imageUrl: String?
    var publishedDate: Date?
    var author: String?
    var sourceType: String
    var relevanceScore: Double
    var clickCount: Int
    var bookmarkCount: Int
}
```

## 🔧 Implementation Details

### **SwiftData Container Setup**
```swift
var sharedModelContainer: ModelContainer = {
    let schema = Schema([
        SearchRecord.self,
        SearchResult.self,
        LinkRecord.self,
        ImageRecord.self
    ])
    let modelConfiguration = ModelConfiguration(schema: schema, isStoredInMemoryOnly: false)

    do {
        return try ModelContainer(for: schema, configurations: [modelConfiguration])
    } catch {
        fatalError("Could not create ModelContainer: \(error)")
    }
}()
```

### **Search Workflow**
1. **User Input**: Search query with parameters
2. **SerpAPI Call**: Google search via SerpAPI
3. **SearchRecord Creation**: Store search session
4. **Content Extraction**: Fetch full article content
5. **LinkRecord Creation**: Store individual articles
6. **Image Download**: Download and store images
7. **AI Analysis**: OpenAI integration for summaries
8. **Data Storage**: SwiftData persistence

### **Content Extraction Process**
```swift
// LinkContentFetcher workflow
1. Fetch HTML content from URL
2. Extract CSS styles
3. Download images
4. Extract metadata (author, date, etc.)
5. Calculate word count and reading time
6. Generate HTML preview
7. Store in LinkRecord
```

## 🎨 User Interface

### **Main Application Window (ContentView)**
- **Search Field**: Quick search input
- **Search Parameters**: Per-search configuration
- **Search History**: List of previous searches
- **Search Results**: HTML summary display

### **Search Queries Window (SearchQueriesView)**
- **Article Links**: List of all stored articles
- **Article Details**: Individual article display
- **Metadata Tags**: Author, date, word count, etc.
- **HTML Preview**: Full article content with styling

### **API Settings Window (APISettingsView)**
- **SerpAPI Configuration**: API key and testing
- **OpenAI Configuration**: API key and testing
- **Account Information**: Credits and usage

### **Search Parameters (SearchParametersView)**
- **Language**: Search language selection
- **Region**: Geographic region
- **Location**: Specific location
- **Safe Search**: Content filtering
- **Time Range**: Date filtering
- **Search Type**: Web, images, news, etc.

## 🚀 Key Features

### **✅ Implemented Features:**

#### **1. Comprehensive Search**
- **Google Search Integration**: Via SerpAPI
- **Multi-Page Results**: Fetch more than 10 results
- **Search Parameters**: Per-search configuration
- **Search History**: Complete search tracking

#### **2. Content Analysis**
- **Full Article Storage**: Complete HTML content
- **Image Management**: Download and store images
- **Metadata Extraction**: Author, date, language, etc.
- **Content Statistics**: Word count, reading time

#### **3. AI Integration**
- **OpenAI Summaries**: AI-generated content summaries
- **Google AI Overview**: Integration with Google's AI
- **Content Analysis**: Automatic content categorization

#### **4. Data Management**
- **SwiftData Storage**: Modern database architecture
- **Relationship Management**: Proper data relationships
- **Memory Optimization**: Efficient memory usage
- **Query Performance**: Fast database queries

#### **5. User Experience**
- **Multi-Window Interface**: Separate windows for different views
- **Search Parameters**: Dynamic parameter adjustment
- **Article Management**: Individual article storage and display
- **HTML Preview**: Original styling preservation

## 🔒 Security & Privacy

### **Data Security**
- **Keychain Integration**: Secure API key storage
- **Local Storage**: All data stored locally
- **Sandbox Compliance**: macOS sandbox security
- **User Control**: Complete data ownership

### **Privacy Controls**
- **Local-Only Storage**: No cloud sync by default
- **User-Controlled Data**: Complete data control
- **Secure API Keys**: Keychain-based storage
- **Data Retention**: User-controlled data management

## 📈 Performance Metrics

### **Current Performance**
- **SwiftData Queries**: Sub-100ms query times
- **Memory Usage**: Optimized memory management
- **Storage Efficiency**: Efficient data storage
- **Content Extraction**: Fast article processing

### **Scalability**
- **Large Datasets**: Efficient handling of large search histories
- **Image Storage**: Optimized image storage and retrieval
- **Query Performance**: Fast search and filtering
- **Memory Management**: Automatic memory optimization

## 🎯 Success Metrics

### **✅ Achieved Goals**
- **Complete Data Capture**: 100% of search results stored
- **Article Storage**: Complete HTML content with images
- **Search Performance**: Fast SwiftData queries
- **User Experience**: Intuitive multi-window interface
- **AI Integration**: OpenAI and Google AI Overview

### **✅ Technical Achievements**
- **Modern Architecture**: SwiftData + SwiftUI
- **Relationship Management**: Proper data relationships
- **Content Analysis**: Automatic metadata extraction
- **Multi-Window UI**: Separate windows for different views
- **Per-Search Configuration**: Dynamic parameter adjustment

## 🔮 Future Enhancements

### **Potential Improvements**
- **Advanced Analytics**: Search pattern analysis
- **Smart Categorization**: AI-powered content classification
- **Export Functionality**: Data export in various formats
- **Cloud Sync**: iCloud integration for data synchronization
- **Advanced Search**: Full-text search across stored content

*For detailed development roadmap, see [INFO_DEVELOPMENT_ROADMAP.md](INFO_DEVELOPMENT_ROADMAP.md)*

---

*Created: 2024-12-19*
*Status: FULLY IMPLEMENTED - SwiftData Architecture*
*Architecture: Modern SwiftData with comprehensive content analysis*
*Version: Beta 0.5*
*Roadmap: 5-Phase Development Plan*

Commit message:

feat(ui): API status bar two lines with plan/credits; add HelpButton across views; remove History Limit; dynamic version/build in App Settings; default open Articles on Launch; docs: bump to 0.5.5

docs/architecture/INFO_CURRENT_ARCHITECTURE.md, after:

# DailyWebScanner - Current Architecture Documentation

## 🎯 Overview

This document describes the current architecture of DailyWebScanner, a macOS application for comprehensive web search, content analysis, and article storage using SwiftData and modern SwiftUI.

## 📊 Current Status (Updated 2025-10-22)
- ✅ **SwiftData Integration** - Fully implemented
- ✅ **SearchRecord System** - Complete search session management
- ✅ **LinkRecord System** - Individual article storage and analysis
- ✅ **ImageRecord System** - Image management and storage
- ✅ **AI Integration** - OpenAI and Google AI Overview
- ✅ **Per-Search Parameters** - Dynamic search configuration
- ✅ **Multi-Window UI** - Separate windows for different views
- ✅ **API Status Bar** - SerpAPI/OpenAI status + credits display
- ✅ **JSON Persistence** - Links/Videos/Metadata saved as JSON strings
- ✅ **Robust DB Size** - Detects store/sqlite + WAL/SHM
- ✅ **Auto-Open Articles** - App setting to open Articles on launch

## 🏗️ Architecture Overview

### **Core Components:**
```
DailyWebScanner App
├── SwiftData Models
│   ├── SearchRecord (Main search sessions)
│   ├── LinkRecord (Individual articles)
│   ├── ImageRecord (Image storage)
│   └── SearchResult (Search results)
├── API Integration
│   ├── SerpAPIClient (Google search)
│   ├── OpenAIClient (AI summaries)
│   └── LinkContentFetcher (Article extraction)
├── User Interface
│   ├── ContentView (Main search interface)
│   ├── SearchQueriesView (Article management)
│   ├── APISettingsView (API configuration)
│   └── SearchParametersView (Per-search settings)
└── Data Management
    ├── SwiftData Container
    ├── Keychain Integration
    └── Content Analysis
```

## 📊 Data Models

### **1. SearchRecord - Main Search Sessions**
```swift
@Model
final class SearchRecord: Identifiable {
    @Attribute(.unique) var id: UUID
    var query: String
    var createdAt: Date
    var htmlSummary: String
    
    // Search Parameters
    var language: String = ""
    var region: String = ""
    var location: String = ""
    var safeSearch: String = ""
    var searchType: String = ""
    var timeRange: String = ""
    var numberOfResults: Int = 20
    
    // Metadata
    var searchDuration: TimeInterval = 0.0
    var resultCount: Int = 0
    
    // Content Analysis
    var contentAnalysis: String = ""  // JSON string
    var headlinesCount: Int = 0
    var linksCount: Int = 0
    var contentBlocksCount: Int = 0
    var tagsCount: Int = 0
    var hasContentAnalysis: Bool = false
    
    // Link Content Storage
    var linkContents: String = ""  // JSON string
    var hasLinkContents: Bool = false
    var totalImagesDownloaded: Int = 0
    var totalContentSize: Int = 0
    
    // Relationships
    @Relationship(deleteRule: .cascade)
    var results: [SearchResult]
    
    @Relationship(deleteRule: .cascade)
    var linkRecords: [LinkRecord]
}
```

### **2. LinkRecord - Individual Articles**
```swift
@Model
final class LinkRecord: Identifiable {
    @Attribute(.unique) var id: UUID
    var searchRecordId: UUID
    var originalUrl: String
    var title: String
    var content: String
    var html: String
    var css: String
    var fetchedAt: Date
    
    // Metadata
    var author: String?
    var publishDate: Date?
    var articleDescription: String?
    var keywords: String?
    var language: String?
    var wordCount: Int
    var readingTime: Int
    
    // Images
    var imageCount: Int
    var totalImageSize: Int
    var images: [ImageRecord] = []
    
    // AI Overview
    var hasAIOverview: Bool
    var aiOverviewJSON: String
    var aiOverviewThumbnail: String?
    var aiOverviewReferences: String?
    
    // Content Analysis
    var hasContentAnalysis: Bool
    var contentAnalysisJSON: String
    
    // HTML Preview
    var htmlPreview: String
}
```

### **3. ImageRecord - Image Storage**
```swift
@Model
final class ImageRecord: Identifiable {
    @Attribute(.unique) var id: UUID
    var linkRecordId: UUID
    var imageUrl: String
    var imageData: Data
    var imageSize: Int
    var imageType: String
}
```

### **4. SearchResult - Search Results**
```swift
@Model
final class SearchResult: Identifiable {
    @Attribute(.unique) var id: UUID
    var searchRecordId: UUID
    var title: String
    var url: String
    var snippet: String
    var position: Int
    var domain: String
    var faviconUrl: String?
    var imageUrl: String?
    var publishedDate: Date?
    var author: String?
    var sourceType: String
    var relevanceScore: Double
    var clickCount: Int
    var bookmarkCount: Int
}
```

## 🔧 Implementation Details

### **SwiftData Container Setup**
```swift
var sharedModelContainer: ModelContainer = {
    let schema = Schema([
        SearchRecord.self,
        SearchResult.self,
        LinkRecord.self,
        ImageRecord.self
    ])
    let modelConfiguration = ModelConfiguration(schema: schema, isStoredInMemoryOnly: false)

    do {
        return try ModelContainer(for: schema, configurations: [modelConfiguration])
    } catch {
        // In app, a user-friendly alert is shown and the app exits gracefully.
        fatalError("Could not create ModelContainer: \(error)")
    }
}()
```

### **Search Workflow**
1. **User Input**: Search query with parameters
2. **SerpAPI Call**: Google search via SerpAPI
3. **SearchRecord Creation**: Store search session
4. **Content Extraction**: Fetch full article content
5. **LinkRecord Creation**: Store individual articles
6. **Image Download**: Download and store images
7. **AI Analysis**: OpenAI integration for summaries
8. **Data Storage**: SwiftData persistence

### **Content Extraction Process**
```swift
// LinkContentFetcher workflow
1. Fetch HTML content from URL
2. Extract CSS styles
3. Download images
4. Extract metadata (author, date, etc.)
5. Calculate word count and reading time
6. Generate HTML preview
7. Store in LinkRecord
```

## 🎨 User Interface

### **Main Application Window (ContentView)**
- **Search Field**: Quick search input
- **Search Parameters**: Per-search configuration
- **Search History**: List of previous searches
- **Search Results**: HTML summary display

### **Search Queries Window (SearchQueriesView)**
- **Article Links**: List of all stored articles
- **Article Details**: Individual article display
- **Metadata Tags**: Author, date, word count, etc.
- **HTML Preview**: Full article content with styling

### **API Settings Window (APISettingsView)**
- **SerpAPI Configuration**: API key and testing
- **OpenAI Configuration**: API key and testing
- **Account Information**: Credits and usage

### **Search Parameters (SearchParametersView)**
- **Language**: Search language selection
- **Region**: Geographic region
- **Location**: Specific location
- **Safe Search**: Content filtering
- **Time Range**: Date filtering
- **Search Type**: Web, images, news, etc.

## 🚀 Key Features

### **✅ Implemented Features:**

#### **1. Comprehensive Search**
- **Google Search Integration**: Via SerpAPI
- **Multi-Page Results**: Fetch more than 10 results
- **Search Parameters**: Per-search configuration
- **Search History**: Complete search tracking

#### **2. Content Analysis**
- **Full Article Storage**: Complete HTML content
- **Image Management**: Download and store images
- **Metadata Extraction**: Author, date, language, etc.
- **Content Statistics**: Word count, reading time

#### **3. AI Integration**
- **OpenAI Summaries**: AI-generated content summaries
- **Google AI Overview**: Integration with Google's AI
- **Content Analysis**: Automatic content categorization

#### **4. Data Management**
- **SwiftData Storage**: Modern database architecture
- **Relationship Management**: Proper data relationships
- **Memory Optimization**: Efficient memory usage
- **Query Performance**: Fast database queries

#### **5. User Experience**
- **Multi-Window Interface**: Separate windows for different views
- **Search Parameters**: Dynamic parameter adjustment
- **Article Management**: Individual article storage and display
- **HTML Preview**: Original styling preservation

## 🔒 Security & Privacy

### **Data Security**
- **Keychain Integration**: Secure API key storage
- **Local Storage**: All data stored locally
- **Sandbox Compliance**: macOS sandbox security
- **User Control**: Complete data ownership

### **Privacy Controls**
- **Local-Only Storage**: No cloud sync by default
- **User-Controlled Data**: Complete data control
- **Secure API Keys**: Keychain-based storage
- **Data Retention**: User-controlled data management

## 📈 Performance Metrics

### **Current Performance**
- **SwiftData Queries**: Sub-100ms query times
- **Memory Usage**: Optimized memory management
- **Storage Efficiency**: Efficient data storage
- **Content Extraction**: Fast article processing

### **Scalability**
- **Large Datasets**: Efficient handling of large search histories
- **Image Storage**: Optimized image storage and retrieval
- **Query Performance**: Fast search and filtering
- **Memory Management**: Automatic memory optimization

## 🎯 Success Metrics

### **✅ Achieved Goals**
- **Complete Data Capture**: 100% of search results stored
- **Article Storage**: Complete HTML content with images
- **Search Performance**: Fast SwiftData queries
- **User Experience**: Intuitive multi-window interface
- **AI Integration**: OpenAI and Google AI Overview

### **✅ Technical Achievements**
- **Modern Architecture**: SwiftData + SwiftUI
- **Relationship Management**: Proper data relationships
- **Content Analysis**: Automatic metadata extraction
- **Multi-Window UI**: Separate windows for different views
- **Per-Search Configuration**: Dynamic parameter adjustment

## 🔮 Future Enhancements

### **Potential Improvements**
- **Advanced Analytics**: Search pattern analysis
- **Smart Categorization**: AI-powered content classification
- **Export Functionality**: Data export in various formats
- **Cloud Sync**: iCloud integration for data synchronization
- **Advanced Search**: Full-text search across stored content

*For detailed development roadmap, see [INFO_DEVELOPMENT_ROADMAP.md](INFO_DEVELOPMENT_ROADMAP.md)*

---

*Created: 2024-12-19*
*Status: FULLY IMPLEMENTED - SwiftData Architecture*
*Architecture: Modern SwiftData with comprehensive content analysis*
*Version: Beta 0.5*
*Roadmap: 5-Phase Development Plan*
